KRATIN ASSIGNMENT SOLUTION
Q. How can you help Sunita Sharma (65+ years old) to live a healthier and better life?
ANS.
Step 1 We can help the elderly people in many ways like we can make an application which will connect the user to the doctor who will prescribe the patient healthy chart which will describes all the activities that must be perform by the user so as to live in a healthy lifestyle. Step 2 We can connect various elderly people through the application so that they can form a group and can share similar lifestyle. We can also provide an to-do list with alarm which will reminder the user to set time for the respective activity and will check the list so that user cannot get confused. We can add a lot of features so that it can help the people to live healthy
ALSO PROVIDE A 1:1 DOCTOR CONSULTANT FOR BETTER HELP OF EACH INDIVIDUAL AND TRACK THEIR PROGRESS.

 
 
A BENEFIT OF 1:1 CONSULTANCY WILL PROVIDE A MAJOR IMPACT ON HEALTH OF PEOPLE AND CAN INCREASE THEIR CHANCES TO LIVE HEALTHEIR LIFE MORE YEARS….. 
Tips to live a healthier and better life :
1. Get involved
Physical activity strengthens the immune system. The more you move, the better your body can fight inflammation and infections.
It is not necessary to engage in strenuous activity. Low-impact exercises are also beneficial. Consider cycling, walking, swimming, or low-impact aerobics. Engage in moderate-intensity exercise for 20 to 30 minutes per day, if possible, to reach the recommended total of 150 minutes per week. Strengthen your muscles by lifting weights or practising yoga. Change up your workout routine to see what works best for you.
2. Use supplements as needed.
Some supplements can help maintain a healthy immune system. Always consult your doctor before taking a supplement, especially if you are taking a prescription medication. Calcium, vitamin D, vitamin B6, and vitamin B12 are some supplements they may recommend. To strengthen your immune system, take supplements or multivitamins as directed.
3. Maintain a healthy diet
Diets high in fruits, vegetables, and lean meats also strengthen your immune system and protect you from disease-causing viruses and bacteria. Antioxidants can be found in fruits and vegetables. Antioxidants shield your cells from damage and keep your body running smoothly.Limit your intake of sugary and fatty foods, which can cause inflammation in the body and weaken your immune system. Limit your alcohol consumption as well. Inquire with your doctor about the safe amount of alcohol to consume per day or week.
4. Frequent hand washing
Another great way to stay healthy all year is to wash your hands on a regular basis. Viruses can survive for up to 24 hours on surfaces. If you touch a virus-infected surface, contaminate your hands, and then touch your face, you could become ill. Wash your hands frequently and for at least 20 seconds with warm soapy water. Hands should not be used to touch your nose, face, or mouth. When you are unable to wash your hands, you can protect yourself by using antibacterial hand sanitizer. Also, disinfect surfaces in your home and workplace on a regular basis.
5. Learn how to deal with stress.
Chronic stress causes your body to produce more cortisol, the stress hormone. Too much cortisol can disrupt your body's functions, including your immune system.
Reduce stress by increasing physical activity, getting enough sleep, setting reasonable goals for yourself, and exploring relaxing, enjoyable activities.
6. Get plenty of sleep.
Sleep not only reduces stress, but it also allows your body to repair itself. As a result, getting enough sleep can result in a stronger immune system, making it easier for your body to fight viruses. Sleep is also important as you age because it helps with memory and concentration. Aim for a minimum of seven and a half to nine hours of sleep per night. If you are having difficulty sleeping, consult your doctor to determine the underlying cause. Insomnia can be caused by inactivity during the day as well as consuming too much caffeine. It could also be a symptom of a medical condition such as sleep apnea or restless leg syndrome.
7. Take infection-prevention measures.
Another way to stay healthy all year is to get annual vaccinations. Consult your doctor about getting a high-dose or adjuvant flu vaccine if you are 65 or older.
In the United States, flu season lasts from October to May. The vaccine takes about two weeks to become effective, and when the vaccine strains match the circulating strains, it reduces the risk of the flu by 40 to 60 percent.
Because the flu virus changes every year, you should get the vaccine every year. Speak with your doctor about getting pneumococcal vaccines to protect against pneumonia and meningitis.
8. Arrange for annual physicals
A yearly checkup can also help you stay healthy. If you have any concerns about your health, always consult your doctor. Diabetes and high blood pressure are two examples of conditions that can go undetected. Your doctor will be able to diagnose any problems that arise as a result of regular physical examinations. Getting treatment as soon as possible may help you avoid long-term complications. Also, if you have any cold or flu symptoms, see your doctor as soon as possible. In adults over the age of 65, the flu virus can cause complications. With age, the immune system weakens, making it more difficult to combat the virus. If you see a doctor within the first 48 hours of experiencing flu symptoms, they may be able to prescribe an antiviral to reduce the severity and duration of your symptoms.
9. Avoid contact with sick people.
Another way to protect yourself all year is to avoid being in close proximity to sick people. It's much easier said than done. However, if your area is experiencing a flu outbreak, limit your contact with people who aren't feeling well and avoid crowded places until conditions improve. If you must go out, wear a face mask to protect yourself. Wear a face mask and gloves when caring for someone who has the flu, and wash your hands frequently.
